---
title: Government and Education Startup Challenges
subtitle: Advice from the internet
layout: article
modal-id: 1
date: 2015-07-09
img: notepad.png
thumbnail: notepad-thumbnail.png
alt: image-alt
project-date: July 09, 2015
client: Start Bootstrap
category: E-Rate
sitemap: false

---
The advice for startups is everywhere these days.  A search on Google reveals list of the Top 3, Top 5, Top 30 lists of advice that go on hundreds of pages deep.  The overriding message is that feeding the startup mentality is big business and there are many players trying to align themselves as the key source of information that will make or break any startups future.  Things change, but more things stay the same…  People who made the most money in the gold rush were those selling shovels, picks, jeans and booze; not the gold miners actually doing the work.

<!-- more -->

How does all of this apply to a startup trying to help entities get better access to government programs like [ERate](www.eratecycle.com)?  Does the existence of government programs provide a more stable environment to allow creative techies to disrupt or does it really create a more challenging environment that stifles disruption?

Some repeated advice spit out by the internet sages include:

### [Expect challenges](www.forbes.com/sites/theyec/2014/04/08/seven-keys-to-startup-success/)
Launching a new project is extremely challenging.  Know this going into it. Expect it.

Drive your company with passion.  Whatever you are building, the challenges and the risks you face in starting something new have to be worth it to you.

### [Develop a Needed Technology](tech.co/automation-efficiency-scalability-keys-startup-success-2015-04)
A successful startup identifies an unfulfilled need and develops the technology to satisfy it.  Many large enterprises have an inefficient, manual approach for this resulting in significant

### Repeatable & Scalable Go-to-Market Methodology
Establish a sales and marketing methodology to directly target potential consumers rather than relying solely on indirect third-party sales

### Adapt or Die Across All Phases of the Company
An underrated benefit of a growing startup is the ability to move nimbly across all phases of the company. A startup must be able to quickly adapt to the slew of changes it will undoubtedly face. 

### Invest in Experienced Leadership
Seasoned leaders can increase sales, anticipate common pitfalls and establish the startup’s culture as it expands beyond its initial creators. 
How do these apply to a startup making its way in the world trying to serve customers in the paperwork filled work with forms like [Form 470](eratecycle.com/erate-form-470/), [Form 471](eratecycle.com/erate-form-471/), and [Item 21](eratecycle.com/erate-funding/)?  While general business processes change, there is usually a reason for the change and because there are businesses involved… there is a planned rollout.  Government programs like [ERate](www.usac.org/sl/) can make changes with OR without notice and the startups must be prepared to adjust more quickly than general business startups.

The most challenging aspect of these changes is they can be driven by forces that do not have customers in mind…  politics, geographies, money, personal agendas can all play major parts in significant change.  The biggest takeaway behind managing this changing environment is that a startup MUST adjust…  it MUST adjust once…  the customers of that startup get the benefit of the experienced team behind the startup to help drive a better experience with the relevant program.
