---
title: E-Rate 2.0?
subtitle: How about a 2.0 consultant approach for E-Rate 2.0?
layout: article
modal-id: 1
date: 2015-06-12
img: notepad.png
thumbnail: notepad-thumbnail.png
alt: image-alt
project-date: June 12, 2015
client: Start Bootstrap
category: E-Rate
sitemap: false

---
USAC and the FCC have released the biggest update to the E-RATE program since its inception.  Program analysts have provided [reviews](http://www.edtechmagazine.com/k12/article/2015/06/how-e-rate-20-helps-schools-afford-broadband-and-wi-fi?utm_content=buffer1aa4c&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter.com&utm_campaign=buffer) and USAC has provided [guidance](https://www.fcc.gov/page/summary-e-rate-modernization-order), but are schools, districts and other eligible entities truly equipped to manage the program.  What makes this an important question?  How about $3.9 billion dollars annually, an increase of $1.5 billion is this latest update.

<!-- more -->

While the program change help to provide the potential for eligible entities to access more funding to gain access to critical technologies to help realize their educational goals, the entire system is blocked by an engrained process that prevent progress.

Managing $3.9 billion dollars takes oversight.  USAC must create systems that provide checks and balances, and provide key vetting stages that deliver compliance with rules.  The problem is these steps also create confusion and require investment of time and money to understand.

The opportunity for consultants to step in to help navigate the landscape is real, it is big business and it is largely outside of the scope and purview of USAC and the FCC.  The E-Rate consultant economy needs to be held accountable to current technology trends: accountability, transparency and disruption.  Why are rates for consultants not published publically?  Why is every service priced differently?  Why is one experience different than another?  Why is there not consistency?

[ErateCycle](http://eratecycle.com) exists to push for change in the one area that the FCC and USAC cannot.  It exists to deliver consistent, high-quality, cost effective experiences that are totally transparent to every eligible entity and its employees.  Audit existing bills, create technology plans, file 470’s and 471’s, and even file item 29’s online and in minutes… and all for costs that are much cheaper than existing consultants.  Pull back the curtain and try E-Rate Consultancy 2.0.
